ICS: Homeworks: Homework Submission Policies
============================================

[Go up to the ICS HW page](index.html) ([md](index.md))


### Lateness

Any late assignment is docked 25% per day late, rounded up.  So an
assignment that is 1 second late to 24 hours late will its score
reduced by 25% (i.e., multiplied by 0.75); 24 hours and 1 second to 48
hours has the score reduced by 50%, and so on.  This means that after
3 days (72 hours) late, it will receive a zero.  The submission
server's clock is set to the [US Navy Atomic clock](https://time.gov).


### Fluff

We don't like fluff!  This mostly applies to the written homeworks,
but could certainly apply to the programming homeworks as well in the
comments.  Fluff is when you add lots of extra verbiage to pad out a
written assignment to make it look longer, or to try to get certain
keywords in because you think it will help with the grading.  Trust
us, it won't -- we don't scan for keywords.  We read the entire
assignment.  If it's too long, or it's full of fluff, then we will get
cranky and give you a zero.  We are looking for quality over quantity.
Thus, there is no particular required length.  And don't do any of
that silly formatting with fonts or margins to make it look longer,
either.  We were all college students once, and we know all those
tricks too...


### Grammar and spelling

While this is not an English course, you have to have well English in
your document -- both spelling and grammar.  If you can't figure out
what that sqiggly red line under a mis-spelled word means, then we are
going to get all cranky when grading it.


### Submission format

All written homeworks must be submitted as a PDF.  This is an upper
level elective for comptuer science majors, so if you don't submit it
as a PDF, we won't grade it.  The PDF has to be a reasonable file size
for the submission system to accept it -- since there aren't likely to
be images in the document, that shouldn't be a problem.
